how do you allocate your time today
write it down
at the end of the day
uh two questions reflective questions
one of all the things that i did today
which one will tomorrow somebody else do
better than me
second question
if i would live more freely and more
intentionally what would i do tomorrow
welcome to 20 minute leaders just sit
back relax and learn from the leaders of
today it's a journey each one is
different unique inspiring let's get
started
[Music]
this episode is powered by j ventures a
community driven vc fund in silicon
valley in partnership with lomitek and
sponsored by homeward ventures hippo
insurance opposed hillel stanford leap
and birthright excel and in media
partnership with ctek
welcome to 20 minute leaders today we're
going to be talking about strategy and
how ceos can better equip themselves
with skills to run their companies in a
more agile and versatile way meet simon
severino business growth coach at
strategy sprints gmbh
simon savarino helps business owners in
sas and services run their company more
effectively which results in sales that
soar trusted by google roche from
cillian's ventures amgen and abvie he
created the strategy sprints method that
doubles revenue in 90 days by getting
owners out of their weeds simon is the
ceo and founder of strategy sprints a
global team of certified strategy
sprints coaches that help clients gain
market share in weekly sprints which
results in fast execution he is a tedx
speaker contributor to forbes and
entrepreneur magazine and a member of
the svbs silicon valley blockchain
society
simon savarino welcome to 20 minute
leaders all the way from vienna austria
how are you
hello everybody excited to be here
and i'm excited to talk to you about
agility
and about
strategic sprints
and talking about what it means to be an
effective leader especially in the age
of online and in the age of revenue
cycles and
when we're expected to just keep
performing better and better and it's
not enough to just have a stable
business model but we actually have to
prove how it can grow faster and faster
and this is where you come into the
picture so simon tell me a little bit
about yourself here a little bit about
your background and then we'll dive into
strategic sprints and talking about the
actual work that you do today with
companies and ceos
sure i'm simon severino i
i've done for the last 18 years only one
thing
and that is helping executive teams with
market growth with really
entering markets
or expanding in markets and the last
years have been super exciting because
we have six
disruptive technologies coming together
right now
and like ai like the blockchain etc and
that's just happening at once and
converging
and nobody really knows what's going on
but everybody wants to use the
opportunity and i work with the ones who
say all right let's do this let's print
i wanna i wanna be the first to have my
supply chain on the blockchain i wanna
be the first
to
use these opportunities
and um
how can we be the disruptor and for
these people i had to
i had to build something that is much
more agile that is much more like lego
than like duplo
not like traditional consulting it must
be really quick these people need
something so they are in silicon valley
i am in vienna their coach is maybe in
shanghai
and so they need something that is like
jarvis or
that is like you know spider-man has the
guy in the chair and every time
spider-man uh is is in action should i
kick the left or the right door he asks
his friends like with this thing in his
ear and the friends goes okay give me a
second
take the left door don't take the right
door
this is what founders need and what
teams that are building something on
frontier really need and this is what we
have built and and it's the strategy
sprints method which just delivers on
three strategies
simplifies everything with gamification
with a very simple dashboard
and you have one coach accessible all
the time 24 7
in cycles of 90 days
and yeah that's what i'm that's what i'm
up to
so obviously
leaders and ceos have a variety of
problems that they're dealing with that
they need advice on and i think they can
pretty
easily categorize them some of them are
very domain specific very specific to
the niche that they're in that requires
a domain expert to understand them but
then there's a bunch of others that are
a little bit higher level thinking about
organizational behavior about how to
optimize for the for the growth of a
company considering all of the different
factors that are not just about the
domain specifics and i'm assuming that
that's also where you're at but but what
what are some examples of those types of
problems that leaders are confronted
with that you've gathered the the
expertise in solving
like right now for example everybody is
asking themselves okay since last week
twitter
is on the lightning network what does
this mean
okay for twitter it means more
engagement okay but what does this mean
for me if i'm in the fintech space if i
may for example a sas builder in the
fintech space
what does this really mean
right what will the visa network do it's
basically
nobody needs any legacy financial
institution anymore you can pay on
twitter right now five dollars from
israel to japan via twitter because jack
muller has
created the api
on the lightning network now this is
happening right now nobody knows what
this means next week next month next
year but everybody sees that it is
disrupting right if you are a founding
team
you have no idea what exactly is going
to happen next week but you have to act
you have to decide and you have to
create
the opportunity how do you create the
opportunity this is the the process that
we have built and the process is
basically
when you don't know what's going on
outside
how do you structure decision and action
inside
that's the strategy sprints method it's
the only thing you can really rely on
you know you can build strategies but
everything changes so you need a
process
that
deals with uncertainty
and this process is the really the only
thing that you can 100
trust it's the only five percent in your
control
95 is not in your control
how facebook will react to twitter is
not in your control how the markets will
react is not in your control five
percent is in your control
and these are the three habits
that that we have
distilled and operationalized
how do you allocate your time today
write it down
at the end of the day
two questions reflective questions one
of all the things that i did today which
one will tomorrow somebody else do
better than me
second question
if i would live more freely and more
intentionally what would i do tomorrow
[Music]
the one is the question that helps you
delegate and identify what to systemize
automate outsource delegate the other is
the question and that's important if you
want to scale a business
and growth
doesn't work without scaling and then
the second question is helps you to
think bigger again because you are so
into the day-to-day that you just
improve current stuff
but this question for example reminded
me oh i want to write a book
ah i have to make space for that
and so
this is the daily habit
so whatever happens outside this is
always in your control how you allocate
your time and how you decide to allocate
time tomorrow
learning from today
weekly habit
get your
numbers every seven days reported
marketing numbers sales numbers
operations numbers
typical examples of a sas company that
creates these dashboards with our sprint
coaches marketing numbers uh how many
people were on our website today how how
how long was their
interaction with clicking and watching
and doing stuff on the website how many
of them
clicked
more or opted in
then on the sales side how many people
landed on our calendar for a demo how
many did we convert or how many did
jumped on a seven days free trial
right and then in the retainment space
in the fulfillment space okay how many
of the free trial became a client for
example what was the churn rate of
current client cohort cohort churn
is it three percent is it five percent
it's a huge difference
and you wanna see the weak signals
so you get these three numbers the whole
team is oriented towards one thing
and that's a huge difference now
it doesn't feel like work now it feels
like friends playing basket they all
have one goal it's the one dashboard
with three numbers
they all know what they should work on
they all can decide without asking
any founder or anybody because it's
clear
if you can do this or that well do that
one that moves this three number forward
right it's very clear everybody can
decide you have empowered the whole team
what what is your role within this whole
process so the sprint coach is the is
like a crossfit coach or a triathlon
coach
we say
okay we help you implement the three
habits the three strategies the three
number
weekly we have a one hour where you show
us the report and we have created a
space
um a project management space where they
see their progress all the time and they
can tag the coach all the time so the
role of the coach
is really to be this
guy in the chair for spider-man they're
in action they are doing stuff every day
trying two different landing pages and
doing a b test changing the subject line
on an email right
and all the time they are uploading the
results the numbers and say oh this
subject line brought seven percent more
clicks than that subject line
and the sprint coach is there with them
on the sideline
the coach is not part of the team but
he's very very involved he sees every
every
spreadsheet every number every
conversion rate
and that's right and that's what you
need as a high performing team you want
a corner man right somebody in your
corner
going through that with you that you can
quickly ask hey should i do this or that
paycheck this out
and you don't have time to read three
books you want somebody who has read
these three books and says
these are the three questions that you
need to answer now go and go and create
a prototype and test it is there an
advantage of having this coach be an a
an external part of the team rather than
a part of the team is there an advantage
to that or is that just the circumstance
that allows you to to operate at a
greater scale
i think it's important that the coach
feels like part of the team and it's
also important
that
he's not
why
because
you you get blind spots in decision
making and you get group think
so the coach identifies group thing and
he is paid to say the uncomfortable
stuff
for example nobody can say to the
founder
hey you should stop doing podcasts right
now it's not the time to do podcasts get
your mrr to 35k before you do any
podcasts now you do sales
nobody can say that to the founder
usually
imagine uh you are an employee and say
that to the founder right right but
that's exactly what the role of the
coaches he looks at the numbers
he is less attached
to the to the story to the narratives of
the team and more to the progress to the
numerical progress of the team so he
sees the number he says hey mrr is at 7k
we need to get that up to 35k and
clubhouse is not going to do that
right so stop clubhouse coming to the
sales meeting let's work on the numbers
let's work on the pitch deck
let's work on your technique
let's record how you interact on
conferences and what to improve
do you find that you have resistance in
these types of things and or or do you
have to do a lot of explaining as you're
making as you're providing these advices
because obviously you know the the
sometimes you're going to provide a
contrarian advice
that asks the or it suggests to the
founder to do something that is
different than what they think they need
to be doing and then there is sort of
this weird situation right all the time
so we just had one client antonio who is
amazing he's one of the best b2b sales
trainers on this planet his book the
lost art of closing is one of the best
sales book ever
and and he was in a sprint and he said
simon
because every 30 days i review with the
clients hey how is it going how how how
is it with your sprint coach etc how is
your progress yeah and he says simon i
hate every single assignment that the
coach gives me
and i go like do i really need to do
this diamond i don't have half an hour
to do another avatar refinement exercise
or oh i don't have a half an hour to
write down the vision come on everybody
knows the vision i don't want to write
it down
and then i did
do the exercise
and afterwards i didn't want to stop
writing that vision i had six pages of
the vision
and it was
so liberating and so important and i and
i shared the vision with everybody in
the team
so there is always a little bit of
resistance
a good coaching
is always
understanding where the athlete or the
coach is
sorry the the the founder is
pushing them outside of comfort zone and
in the learning zone not into the panic
zone but into the learning zone so you
have to push a little bit not too much
but this push every week is exactly what
helps them scale
and then the and that will be
uncomfortable and this is why every
monday
i coach every sprint coach so every
monday we have the coach meeting all
coaches from every country from
california from new york from shanghai
we come together on monday
for 60 minutes and discuss every single
client
and basically
is a jiu-jitsu about exactly this push
and pull how much can you push how much
can you pull which client is not doing
the exercises which client is not
growing in revenue all right let's go
there let's go deep let's help the coach
uh jujitsu themselves out of this
situation and get into the right dynamic
again
and
and helping find the obstacles inner
obstacles other obstacles maybe they
need a template maybe they need
a different wording when you give them
this this assignment
so let's let's refine that
and this is something that i do every
monday with my coaches and that's
that's the main work really
understanding where they are it's like
when you're coaching an athlete right
okay oh he that he did
the bench press went down two kilogram
why let's let's find out
is it leap is it
uh is it um the diet
uh what is it let's find out
let's help him get back on track so
you know right now we're talking about
up it's all about optimizations right
and about making about a continuous
improvement agility sometimes leaders
don't want to optimize for these
quantitative
and numbers like revenues and sales
sometimes they want to optimize for
their company culture or for better
hiring or for a refinement of vision
how do you how how do you then interact
in that situation when a founder may
tell you listen but we actually need to
do some internal work
be and and right now our focus is not
necessarily on on these things that we
thought they are
we always do a bottleneck analysis so
there is no optimization of anything
without knowing that this is the
bottleneck
right so every week
there is a bottleneck analysis and if
the bottleneck analysis is hey your team
meetings suck
then for that week we will work on
improving the meetings the cadence the
flow the agenda the preparation the
reports
uh how you start a meeting right
most people just don't have a good flow
and a good cadence of meetings
and this is for example a culture moment
or we will identify that people don't
believe in the vision or don't know the
vision well then vision is the
bottleneck
right and so every week there will be
this analysis together we'll say okay
this is the bottleneck let's solve this
this week on friday we measure
we learn from it if it's solved next
week we solve the next bottleneck and
then it might be marketing
right
i think that i think that makes a lot of
sense and i i want to understand you a
little bit better and go back in time so
you've been working on this for for the
past 18 years you've mentioned
you know if you go back to your
childhood you know middle school
elementary school what what really are
you curious about
where's your fascination
i was curious about so many things
basically about everything nature
did fascinate me every single animal
every single plant i could watch it for
hours i would watch the stars in italy
i would watch the stars in the night i
would lie on my terrazza and watch the
stars for hour and i was in oh like how
can this be this this is amazing who is
engineering this
wow wow
incredible and and the entrance to
strategy springs and the decision to
work with multiple
founders multiple leaders
how did that come about
well it's funny i studied philosophy and
after studying philosophy i was broke
and so i had to find a job
and i stumbled into my first jobs
10 years later i find myself being in a
global consultancy and liking that a lot
and flying to paris to new york to
beijing and having a ton of fun
with really cool big problems to solve
like how do you enter this market with
that product and i was like yeah because
it was both about people
because people need to execute it
but it was also
numeric and that was
technical so i liked this combination
the art and and the science
of of consulting and of really moving
moving um teams forward in terms of
market shares
uh this this did excite me a lot and
i did this for 18 years in a row
wow
now if you had to look at where you draw
the inspiration today for your work
whether it be the large or small
inspiration in the day-to-day where
where does inspiration lie
yeah it's funny uh i have three things
that inspire me a lot so every day i
think
what would the best ceo on the planet do
what would the best athlete on the
planet do what would the best father on
this planet do because these are my
three
main roles father
affleck
and so
i have three inspirations for that and
heroes if you want so
when i asked myself what would the best
father do
my inspiration is
keith johnstone who invented
improv theater
this playing with the moment reacting
right now
that's
that's my inspiration how can i react to
the moment right now work with what is
here right now whatever it is
then when i ask myself what would the
best ceo do i have the picture of
satguru
who is
a very atypical
ceo he is a yogi
uh in india but he has a global
community of volunteers
and i don't know how many millions i
think 20 millions people working every
day with no paycheck with no contract
they are just
in love with the mission
and they move the mission forward and
make it a reality and he basically he's
telling jokes all the time and in front
of cameras all the time he doesn't say
anybody
do this do that
and it's a wonderful example of a ceo
and that's my in inspiration
uh when i think how do i do this i think
what would satguru do
and then
and then the third one the athlete when
i think what would the best athlete do
i think of ben bergeron who is the
crossfit coach coach of the
yeah you know him yeah
he's he's coaching the the fittest
people on on this planet
and and he does exactly what we do
as a sprint coach he's reading all the
books and he's always frontier but he's
also training with them beside them and
living it with them
and so that's why he's not part of the
team he will never be the fittest person
on the planet but he is the best
uh um
guy in the chair for the fittest person
on the planet and that's
that's
he does in sports what we do
in with business teams and that's why
he's my inspiration
i love it and if you have to choose
two or three words that you would use to
describe yourself and i think i know
what they are
but what would they be
myself
yeah ridiculous
fast
and funny
i love it and i will add the three words
that i was uh
that i would put my bet on father ceo
athlete
oh and i think that that sums up nicely
in this conversation so simon really
thank you very very much for your time
this was wonderful very very inspiring
and i love your outlook on coaching and
on agility and this idea of continuous
improvement but being very intentional
about the improvement so thank you very
very much and stay safe and stay healthy
thank you
thank you everybody keep rolling
[Music]
you